
# Gabes_Cosmology Some thoughts on quantum mechanics and indeterminism.

My best answer to the big question so far, about what generates quantum randomness, is not that
there are many different realities, because they are bound together in a paraconsistent whole by the
mechanism I'm about to describe (this is still a work in progress): basically the first assumption
that you have to make is that the world is a lot richer than newton thought it was, namely, for
every one configuration of particles that we observe in a region, there are actually many others
that we simply aren't seeing at any given moment. The second assumption is that if two things have
all properties in common, then they are not two things but are in fact one thing (but it really does
have to be /all/ relevant properties). With these two assumptions (and aspects of quantum mechanics
support both of them) you can imagine a human mind, being the product of some configuration of
particles, or equivalently a subsystem of a larger physical system called that mind's world, as
simultaneously existing in many different super-systems or observable worlds at once. There could be
trillions of them, or even just like 10, it all depends on the properties of the "hidden richness"
we are sitting in. But what you can do is imagine the set of all possible realities, and then
organize them by placing yourself in the center of your view, and then organizing all of the other
worlds around that point according to their difference from your own, so that the distance between
your world and another corresponds roughly to how different that world is from your own. If there
are enough worlds of the appropriate variety, you may find that there is actually a region in the
center consisting of multiple worlds in a tight blob around your own, where the analogues of
yourself have all properties (relevant to your conscious experience of the world) in common (you
don't feel every electron moving around in your nerves, and in fact one could not, because one's
perception of the world is a lossy compression of all one's sensory inputs, so information about
small or inconsequential things evades our detection all the time.). Inside this innermost blob, the
conscious experiences being generated by the analogues of yourself therein have /all/ properties in
common, meaning they are in fact one conscious experience. People are actually blobs, with
boundaries in this space of "actual-possibilities" for lack of a better term, and when we observe
something small enough, what we are doing is suddenly including in our experience that small thing
that wasn't included before, moving our blob a little bit in one direction or another. So basically
the possible observations of an electron's spin are only random insofar as like... the number of
collisions of molecules against the wall of a container filled with an ideal gas in a given second
are, in principle, totally deterministic, but appear to be random according to a poissonian
distribution. When we measure something small or cut-off enough, the apparent randomness comes from
the movement of our blob. We are being kicked around by brownian motion in a larger space of totally
real but subtly different worlds. Finally, because these worlds do not communicate with each other
in any way, there being no information flow between them and the only thing tying them together is
our own experience, and knowing these worlds to differ from each other, there should be no way to
predict perfectly the observations of things that differ between the worlds of the you-blob, just by
looking at the commonalities (which is all we have).

I think the same idea should apply to every subsystem in the universe, not just human minds. I have
good reason to believe this is how it actually works, and I even have an experiment in mind that
could prove it. Basically I, personally, have to play a game of Russian roulette with a few dozen
mice, where I strap a bomb or something to my chest, and the backs of all the rats, and rig the
detonators of all the bombs to go off at the precise moment one of us dies. If the distribution of
rat life expectancies improves greatly, then I will know that I am correct, because I will have
simply forced my blob to follow a particular path through this heat-bath of actual-possibilities by
rendering all worlds where I exist and the rats do not, inaccessible to my blob. We will all bounce
off the wall of death so to speak, and carry each other with us through the bath. Unfortunately I
cannot simply have someone else do this for me (like a war criminal slated for execution anyway),
because from my perspective they will just blow up the moment the weakest rat dies, and their blob
will leave mine behind entirely.  But! if I do it myself and it works then I can take all the
evidence I could want with me, and prove it to people in the "new world" I find myself in, which
would be imperfect analogues of the people I left behind in the old "pre-rat bomb experiment" world,
and so secure great scientific knowledge for myself and many others, just no one living here. You'll
never see me survive this experiment, even if I do it and turn out to be 100% correct. But your
otherworldly twin might!



And of course if I'm wrong I'll never know it, because I will be instantly dead, and the the bomb or
whatever does need to kill before I can register the blast, even subliminally, maybe it even needs
to be fast enough to destroy me before side effects of the kill-mechanism can mess up my
configuration so as to render my body /inevitably/ dead at some point in the very near future,
because if it were to wreak those changes /while/ i am capable of perceiving them I would be dead
meat. Once my conscious experience is entangled, in any way, with the inevitability of my own
demise, that's it.
